Ah, you’re up early today.
Dad?
Yeah?
I want to get baptized.
OK, let’s talk about it.
I was thinking, you know, Mom was baptized
when she was 12, and, you know, I . . .
And now you’re 12, is that it?
I know what you’re thinking, Dad,
but I’m ready.
I know I am.
I tell you what,
let’s do a special family study series first.
OK?
On what?
Well, we’ll start with faith.
Being dedicated to Jehovah
and staying dedicated to him,
it requires that we have strong faith.
“By faith Noah, after receiving
divine warning of things not yet seen,
showed godly fear
and constructed an ark.”
Abraham just “as good as offered up Isaac.”
So how did that take a lot of faith?
So the Bible says
that Abel was faithful his whole life,
but he was also faithful until death.
So, what do you think that means?
Rachel,
keep your faith strong
and you will never fail.
Love, Dad.
How do you like the pictures?
I really like this one of us.
Oh, your mom
would have really liked this one.
I just wish
she could have been there today.
I know, me too.
Which is why I’ve been thinking
that if she were here,
I think she would have wanted
you to have this.
Mom’s memory book.
I thought you
could pick up where she left off
and fill it with your theocratic memories.
And then, one day soon, we can share
those memories with her in the new world.
What do you say?
Yeah, I would love that.
Yeah? Good.
Thanks, Dad.
You’re welcome.
Hey, Dad.
Hey, Rachel.
I was just looking
at some old pictures of you.
Wow, that was a long time ago.
Yeah, it was.
Hey, is there any mail for me?
Yeah, it’s right here on the counter.
Ah, OK.
It’s just another wedding invitation.
How was your day?
How was the museum?
Oh, it was OK.
Is something bothering you?
Yeah.
I feel like all my friends
are getting married.
People at work wonder why I’m not dating.
And they’ve even tried to set me up.
I mean, come on, aren’t you interested in,
you know, being with a guy?
I met someone at the museum today.
He was really nice.
I’m finally getting the attention I want,
but it’s not from a Witness.
Just call me, OK?
Maybe, maybe.
It’ll be fun.
So, what are you going to do about it?
Rachel, always remember,
virtue is a beautiful quality.
It’s not just passive avoidance
but has real power
—power to do good.
Treasure virtue
and Jehovah will treasure you.
Love, Dad.
Virtue is based on our love for Jehovah.
As it says in the book of Psalms:
“O you lovers of Jehovah, hate what is bad.”
Just call me, OK?
It’ll be fun.
Do I love Jehovah enough to hate what is bad?
Hey, any mail for me today?
No, not today.
Ah, the printing company called though.
I picked up this package for you.
The invitations arrived.
Yeah.
Eventually, I ended up getting engaged
to a wonderful brother.
But even so,
I realized that marriage
wasn’t the solution to my problem.
Remaining faithful to Jehovah
is what really made me happy.
Mom, do we have anything to eat?
I can’t believe you’re still hungry.
He is a growing boy.
What are you going to do
with all that energy, Son?
I’m trying to study.
For school?
No, it’s for the meeting tomorrow.
I want to be able to give a comment.
That’s good.
I’m sensing there’s a problem though.
Yeah, a big one.
I don’t like to study.
It’s so boring.
You know,
I used to find it hard to study too,
and then I realized
study can be like exercise.
It may not seem enjoyable at first,
but once you make the effort
and then establish a regular routine,
it becomes enjoyable
—even fun.
And soon,
it won’t feel like work anymore.
I agree.
I’ll tell you what,
we can go up to your room,
and I’ll show you how
to get the most out of your study.
OK, sounds good.
All right,
I thought we’d start by showing me,
maybe, where you’re stuck.
Well, I’m trying to find the answer. . .
Dad reminded me
to pray to Jehovah first,
asking for help
to understand what I’m studying.
He said it’s important
to look up the scriptures
and make sure I review the main points.
Then, think about how
the material applies to me.
I learned that study
isn’t just preparing for meetings;
it’s learning about Jehovah
and how to live a good life.
And it doesn’t always mean reading.
Sometimes I can even look at creation
or draw pictures about something I learned.
After a few weeks,
I really started to enjoy it
and my study time flew by.
Where’s Noah?
He’s up in his room studying.
Really?
Are you still studying?
Oh, man, Grandpa and Dad were right.
About what?
Well, they said that studying
wouldn’t feel like work anymore.
I remember when Grandpa
said the same thing to me.
Really?
I brought this for you.
He gave this to me
when I was about your age.
Rachel, apply yourself to study,
and soon it won’t feel like work.
Love, Dad.
Hey, Mom.
Morning, Noah.
You going out in service?
No, actually,
I have some things I need to get done,
and then I was hoping
to do some painting or sketching later.
Nice.
Oh, good.
You must be ahead on your schedule.
You ready, Son?
Ready.
Thanks for lunch.
You’re welcome.
See you.
Have a good day.
Bye, Mom.
Love you.
I’ve been planning
this day off for months now.
I really want a chance to relax and paint.
I hardly ever get to take some time off.
Nothing is going to get in the way.
Hi, Anne.
Hey, Rach.
How are you?
Good.
Well, I’m on the way to the hall for service,
and I was wondering if later today,
maybe if you had some time—
I started a new study with this young girl.
Oh, nice.
Actually, you know,
I already have plans for the day.
Oh, OK.
What about Sarah?
I checked.
She has plans.
Daisy?
No.
Simone?
No, but that’s OK.
I’ll find somebody.
Thanks so much for understanding, Anne.
I felt bad, but she didn’t seem to mind.
Like she said,
I’m sure she’ll find someone.
Well, look at that.
My old memory book.
I haven’t seen this in a while.
Dad’s cards always gave me such good advice.
Rachel, self-control is more
than just refraining from doing bad.
It compels us to do good,
like Kingdom preaching.
Don’t let the unwilling flesh
extinguish the fire of a willing spirit.
Love, Dad.
Self-control
—I never thought of it that way before.
There’s nothing wrong with taking a day off,
but Anne does need help.
And I’ll still have time
to paint when I get back.
Change of plans, Rachel.
Hi, Anne.
This is Rachel.
Did you find anybody
to go on the Bible study with you?
Could I go with you?
Perfect, where can I meet you?
See you soon.
I’m glad I decided to help Anne.
That was such a good Bible study,
and I still have time to paint.
This turned out to be a great day.
So how was pioneer school?
It was great.
We had Brother Daniels
as our primary instructor.
He’s incredible.
He’s a good teacher.
And, Noah, what was it like
to be in pioneer school with your grandpa?
It was great; it really was.
Hard to believe, though,
I never thought
this system would last so long.
And I certainly never thought
I’d be a grandfather.
So, Grandpa,
what was it like when you were my age?
Well, when I was about your age,
I had just become a new father.
I could tell even then
that your mother was going to be an artist.
Those were good times for us.
A few years later, though,
your grandmother became seriously ill.
Hey, Sweetie.
We didn’t know it at the time,
but she wasn’t going to get better.
Watching your best friend
die a little each day,
it just tears you up inside.
With Jehovah’s help
and with the support
of the brothers and sisters,
we got through it.
We learned to rely on Jehovah
in ways we never had before.
And that helped when, years later,
another test came our way.
You see, back then, some were looking
to a certain date as signifying
the end of this old system of things.
A few even went so far
as selling their homes
and quitting their jobs.
I admit that I was ready
to see this old system go away too,
but something just didn’t seem right.
Both at meetings and in my personal study,
I was reminded of what Jesus said
—nobody knows the day or hour.
I was dedicated to Jehovah,
not a date.
After that year came and went,
most of those who had wrong expectations
made the needed adjustments
and they stayed.
We didn’t run away, and we didn’t give up.
We trusted in Jehovah.
When I see older ones now,
I don’t just see gray hair,
I see living,
breathing examples of endurance.
Wow, Grandpa, I didn’t know
you had to endure through all that.
We got through it with Jehovah’s help.
But, Scott, you were
in pioneer school recently, right?
Yeah, just a year ago.
Who were your instructors?
We had Brother Smith and Brother Harris.
But, Scott, you were
in pioneer school recently, right?
Yeah, just a year ago.
Who were your instructors?
I didn’t know
that evening would be
one of our last together.
If I had known,
I would have thanked Dad
for all that he did
—teaching me how to study,
meditate,
and put into practice beautiful qualities.
A gift he shared,
not just with me,
but a gift and Scriptural reminders
that somehow seemed to keep giving.
No matter how hard it got,
the Bible training he gave me
never steered me wrong.
I had no idea the impact it would have on me,
but he did.
I thank Jehovah
that he raised me in the truth
the way he did.
Rachel,
as a parent, you pray
that your child
always stays close to Jehovah.
So I made it my goal
to instill the qualities
at 2 Peter 1:5-10
into your heart as best I could.
“Put forth all earnest effort
“to supply to your faith virtue,
“to your virtue knowledge,
“to your knowledge self-control,
“to your self-control endurance,
“to your endurance godly devotion,
“to your godly devotion brotherly affection,
“to your brotherly affection love.
“For if you keep on doing these things,
you will by no means ever fail.”
Love, Dad.